Python Advance Assignment 1

1. What makes NumPy.shape() different from NumPy.size()?
   
    Shape relates to the size of the dimensions of an N-dimensional array.
    Size regarding arrays, relates to the amount (or count) of elements that are contained in the array (or sometimes, at the top dimension of the array - when used as length).
    
    numpy.shape() function gives us the number of elements in each dimension of an array.

    numpy.size() function will returns the size of a given array.



2. In NumPy, describe the idea of broadcasting.

   broadcasting means the ability of NumPy to treat arrays of different shapes during arithmetic operations. 
   Arithmetic operations on arrays are usually done on corresponding elements and  
   If two arrays are of exactly having same shape, then these operations are smoothly performed.
   


3. What makes Python better than other libraries for numerical computation?
   
   Numerical computaion means calculation or mathematical operation of numbers in my opinion.. 
   it is easy by using python because python is simple and basic programming language , very less code is required to any operation.
   It has very easy syntax when compared to other languages .


4. How does NumPy deal with files? 
   NumPy introduces a simple file format for ndarray objects. 
   This . npy file stores data, shape, dtype and other information required to reconstruct the ndarray in a disk file such that the array is correctly retrieved even if the file is on another machine with different architecture.
   The numpy.save() file stores the input array in a disk file with npy extension.
  we use load() function to reconstruct the array outfile
   savetxt() and loadtxt() will store and retrieve the data and also allows to accept the extra or additional parameters like header ,footer etc..


5. Mention the importance of NumPy.empty().

   The empty() function is used to create a new array of given shape and type, without initializing entries.
   the numpy.empty() function doesn't set the array values to zero 
   And this function requires the user to set all the values in the array manually and should be used with caution.
   syntax for this : 
        numpy.empty(shape, dtype=float, order='C')  



   Thank you ...
    
   
  